So welcome back, guys.
Now let us try to understand the One-to-one relationship between a physical page and a virtual page
for a process.
Now, as the name suggests, one on one relationship means that if there exists a virtual page, then
there exists a physical page.
So remember, we equate virtual addresses as keys and physical addresses as lockers, which have some
data in it.
A virtual page is a collection of four 096 keys, right?
Why?
Because we already know that the number of virtual addresses in one virtual page is to restore the power
to one.
Which is for 096, and each of these keys unlocks one bite of data and physical memory, which means
that each virtual address provide an access to one bite of data present at some physical address in
main memory.
So remember, here he is nothing, but it is virtual address and virtual address provide you and access
to exactly one bit of data which is present and physical memory.
So if there is a key means, if there is a virtual address, then there has to be a locker precisely
saying if there is a virtual page, then there exists a corresponding physical page and that physical
page may be on disk or it may be on memory.
So suppose that a process watcher, Labruzzo Space, contains five virtual pages, right, and we already
know that virtual pages are arranged in contiguous manner.
Now, if there are five virtual pages, then there exist five physical pages, which may be stored in
some noncontiguous frames in May memory.
And you can see that there is a one on one relationship between a virtual page and a physical page for
every virtual page directors to physical page.
So you can see that virtual page P three has physical page three, virtual page P two has physical space
pizza and so on.
So remember, these are the physical pages and physical pages are nothing, but they are a snapshot
of the frames of main memory.
So these physical pages may be present in some frames of physical memory or may be present on this.
But one thing is clear that for every virtual page of a process, there exists a physical page.
And it makes sense because you need.
Actual physical memory to store data Whelchel pages are only a collection of virtual addresses, and
they do not support any data corresponding to those virtual addresses that exist of physical page and
on those physical page actually used to data.
So as simple as that, if virtual page is a key, then physical page is like a locker where you kept
your data items.
So a typical virtual page looks something like this.
Once again, I'm stating Rachel Paige is just a collection of virtual addresses, so even to three,
if up to eight are like virtual addresses and actual data is stored on the corresponding physical page,
and you can see that physical page is towards one bite of data corresponding to one virtual address.
So if there are eight virtual addresses in virtual page, then there exist eight data items, each data
item being a data of one byte in physical memory.
So in this example, you can see that using virtual Atlas A3, you can access one bite of this data
item.
Now, going forward, you can see the diagram on the right hand side represents the virtual outer space
of a process in execution.
So physical pages are created or destroyed as process users are freeze corresponding virtual pages during
the course of its execution.
So you can see that this process is an execution then corresponding to virtual pages which are in use
operating system will create physical pages.
So far, virtual page P0, physical page P0 will be created by the operating system.
So it is this physical page which will actually to the machine called instructions of the process,
which is an execution.
Similarly, the process, which will add to space, has a region called, initialised and initialised,
did a segment so corresponding to these virtual pages, physical pages, P1 and P2 will be created by
the operating system.
The actual initialized and initialize data segment will reside on these physical pages.
So in this example, the physical page P0 and P1 and P2 will be created by the operating system as soon
as you execute this program.
The reason being that good segment and initialised and initialised data segment of a process are mandatorily
created as soon as the process starts its execution.
Now, suppose you process.
Request some dynamic memory using mallock so the operating system will create a virtual page and assign
it to your process now corresponding to the virtual page B3 operating system also created a physical
page three, right.
Similarly, if the process request more memory from the operating system, the operating system will
assign the virtual page before to the process and corresponding to the virtual page before the operating
system.
Also create a physical page before and it goes on.
So operating system allocates or release the virtual memory and hence the corresponding physical pages
in units of page size, which is four zero nine six bytes.
So if you request mallock 10, it may not result in creation of new physical or virtual page if topmost
virtual page in Heap's segment of the process.
Virtual address space still has 10 bytes of memory to satisfy the Mallak request.
So it is as simple as that.